# DSA-Data-Analysis-and-Design
What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course?
The problems I was solving in this course was learning the difference and the implementation of different data structures. The data structures where vectors, hash tables, and binary search trees. The projects I was assigned in this course where to complete the code that had these data structures in them, where other parts of the code where already complete. Each week we went over a different structure, learned its pros and cons and them implemented the code. 

How did you approach the problem? Consider why data structures are important to understand
Each week had its own problems to we faced as we learned different data structures.  When approaching a new problem, I would read the chapter the have the chapter open as I was doing the homework to make sure I was using the right syntax and appropriate comments so I can follow what I did the next day. The interesting part was when I would run into code that was wrong or wasn’t supposed to be there in different sections. Specifically, when we were learning binary search trees there was a struct for a hash table. Although this was definitely good from a learning standpoint. 

How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or project?
The main way I would over come road blocks was to simply walk away and come back to it in a few minutes or to reach out to the tutoring center for help. I has having a huge issue with my insert function for my binary search tree and spent hours trying to isolate the issue. I took a break and went for a walk with my dogs came back and realized I only used one equal sign instead of 2. Quite frustrating but the walk was worth it.

How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and developing programs?
When approaching designing software, specifically data structures it is important to know what data  you are going to be going through, or more specifically what the data will be. Different data structures are good for different things, some are good for fixed information, some are good to be modified as you go and some are good for tree structures but require more attention to detail when coding them. 


My final project defiantly taught me that patience and time are key in programming. I came very close to giving up time and time again. However I knew I had all the information I needed I just need to go through it slowly and apply it correctly. Debugging as you go is key, and looking up things you’ve never done before the first time so you get them right is also helpful, like CSV files. For maintainablility it is important to avoid concret data points like a key in hash tables, you want to make them adjustable at a single point for the entire code so you can maintain it easily. Readability is hard wioth binary search trees because you have so many pointers and nodes you want to make suire you keep track of each side of the tree. 
